Create Dropbox remote docs (#1896)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/user-guide/setup-dropbox-remote.md

# Setup a Dropbox DVC Remote

In this guide we explain the existing ways to setup Dropbox
[remote storage](/doc/command-reference/remote) for your <abbr>DVC
projects</abbr>, along with the different benefits each one brings.

## Quick start

To start using a Dropbox remote, you only need to add it with a
[valid URL format](#url-format). Then use any DVC command that needs to connect
to it (e.g. `dvc pull` or `dvc push` once there's tracked data to synchronize).
For example:

```dvc
$ dvc add data
...
$ dvc remote add --default myremote \
                           dropbox://my-directory
$ dvc push

Go to the following link in your browser:

    https://www.dropbox.com/oauth2/authorize?response_type=code&client_id=<client-id>&token_access_type=offline # ... copy this link

Enter verification code: # <- enter resulting code
```

See [Authorization](#authorization) for more details.

## URL format

> You can indicate any directory name that will be created under the
> `DROPBOX_HOME`, e.g. `DROPBOX_HOME/dvc/my-project`. Make sure this name is not
> already used for another project to keep things separated. The URL is formed as
> follows: `dropbox://dvc/my-project`. It does not need to be an existing
> directory.

Reviewer: Just inverting the sentence order (and copy edits):

```suggestion
The URL is formed as follows: `dropbox://dvc/my-project`. You can indicate any
directory path (it will be created if it doesn't exist) under the
`DROPBOX_HOME`, e.g. `DROPBOX_HOME/dvc/my-project`. Make sure this directory is
not already used by another project, to keep things separate. 
```

Reviewer: But what is `DROPBOX_HOME`?

Author: `DROPBOX_HOME` is just a path to the Dropbox folder on the user filesystem. It is not an env variable though, just a concept.

Reviewer: I see. Maybe don't put it in back quotes because it looks like an env var. Idea:

```md
under the Dropbox home folder, e.g. `<Dropbox-home>/dvc/my-project`
```

## Authorization

On the first usage of a Dropbox [remote](/doc/command-reference/remote), for
example when trying to `dvc push` tracked data for the first time, DVC will
prompt you to visit a special Dropbox authentication web page. There you'll need
to sign into a Drobpox account with the needed access to the Dropbox
[URL](#url-format) in question. The
[auth process](https://www.dropbox.com/lp/developers/reference/oauth-guide) will
ask you to grant DVC the necessary permissions, and produce a verification code
needed for DVC to complete the connection. On success, the necessary credentials
will be saved in a Git-ignored file, located in
`.dvc/tmp/dropbox-user-credentials.json` and they will be used automatically
next time you run DVC.

⚠️ In order to prevent unauthorized access to your Dropbox, **do not share these
credentials with others**. Each team member should go through this process
individually.

If you use multiple Dropbox remotes, by default they will be sharing the same
`.dvc/tmp/dropbox-user-credentials.json` file. It can be overridden with the
`DROPBOX_CREDENTIALS_FILE` environment variable:

```dvc

> $ export DROPBOX_CREDENTIALS_FILE=.dvc/tmp/myremote-credentials.json

Reviewer: Question: why did we go for an env var here? For gdrive there's a `remote modify` config option for this (`gdrive_user_credentials_file`).

Author: Yeah, but there's also `GDRIVE_CREDENTIALS_DATA`:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1897842/104088866-1529bd00-526a-11eb-8a84-bcf0033fb54c.png)
I did not want to complicate the setup even more, so just merged the two `gdrive_user_credentials_file` setting and `GDRIVE_CREDENTIALS_DATA` env var into `DROPBOX_CREDENTIALS_FILE` env var.

Reviewer: Makes sense. Maybe we should simplify for GDrive similarly (out of scope though, just saying).

```

⚠️ In order to prevent unauthorized access to your Dropbox, **never commit**
this file with Git. Instead, add it into `.gitignore` and never share it with

> other people.

Reviewer: @shcheklein now that I think about it, do we need this paragraph (here and in the GDrive guide)? The file is already in `.dvc/`.

Reviewer: Never mind, yes, this is a useful note.

If you wish to change the user you have authenticated with, or for
troubleshooting misc. token errors, simply remove the user credentials JSON file
and authorize again.

> Alternatively, a set of environment variables can be set:
> 
> - `DROPBOX_ACCESS_TOKEN` - current access token
> - `DROPBOX_EXPIRES_AT` - access token expiration time in ISO format
> - `DROPBOX_REFRESH_TOKEN` - refresh token for reauthentication
> 
> to pass user credentials in CI/CD systems, production setup, read-only file
> systems, etc. DVC reads these variable first, before the credentials file.

Reviewer: Paragraph reorder:
```suggestion
Alternatively, a set of environment variables can be set to pass user
credentials in CI/CD systems, production setup, read-only file systems, etc. DVC
reads these variables first, before the credentials file:

- `DROPBOX_ACCESS_TOKEN` - current access token
- `DROPBOX_EXPIRES_AT` - access token expiration time in ISO format
- `DROPBOX_REFRESH_TOKEN` - refresh token for reauthentication
```

Reviewer: > in ISO format

Can we link to somewhere that explains ISO format? Preferably if it's explained somewhere in DB docs.

Author: I've added link to the exact function I'm using in the code, so everyone will have parity.

Reviewer: Thanks!

> Please note our
> [Privacy Policy (Dropbox API)](/doc/user-guide/dropbox-privacy).

## Selective Sync

If you synchronize your Dropbox account to your computer, you may not
necessarily want to synchronize all the files DVC uses. Instead, you can setup

> Selective Sync or Smart Sync within the Dropbox desktop application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Selective Sync](https://help.dropbox.com/installs-integrations/sync-uploads/selective-sync-overview)
or
[Smart Sync](https://help.dropbox.com/installs-integrations/sync-uploads/smart-sync)
within the Dropbox desktop application.
```

### Selective Sync vs Smart Sync

> The two options slightly differ:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two options differ slightly:
```

# Setup a Dropbox DVC Remote

In this guide we explain the existing ways to setup Dropbox
[remote storage](/doc/command-reference/remote) for your <abbr>DVC
projects</abbr>, along with the different benefits each one brings.

## Quick start

> To start using a Google Drive remote, you only need to add it with a

Reviewer 2: Google Drive -> Dropbox

[valid URL format](#url-format). Then use any DVC command that needs to connect
to it (e.g. `dvc pull` or `dvc push` once there's tracked data to synchronize).
For example:

```dvc
$ dvc add data
...
$ dvc remote add --default myremote \

>                            gdrive://0AIac4JZqHhKmUk9PDA/dvcstore

Reviewer 2: gdrive -> dropbox 

change `0AIac4JZqHhKmUk9PDA` -> some path?

$ dvc push

Go to the following link in your browser:

    https://www.dropbox.com/oauth2/authorize?response_type=code&client_id=<client-id>&token_access_type=offline # ... copy this link

Enter verification code: # <- enter resulting code
```

See [Authorization](#authorization) for more details.

## URL format

You can indicate any directory name that will be created under the

> `DROPBOX_HOME/Applications/dvc`, e.g.

Reviewer 2: in this case (since we rely on DVC to cache data) would it be better to set this directory to avoid sync with local? or if that is not possible use this as a DVC project cache? Though it means that we have to have enough space locally for the whole remote, all remote objects?

btw, if we have enough space locally then we don't even need a special remote- we can create `DROPBOX_HOME/Applications/dvc/my-project` and set it as cache with `dvc cache dir`?

Author: It completely misses the point:

- Dropbox uses smart sync. With using Dropbox API you get no network traffic on development machine when the remote experimentation server pushes changes to remote cache.
- You don't actually install Dropbox on a remote machine, especially that a lot of experimentation nowadays happen in a remote Kubernetes cluster (even when on-prem).

Reviewer 2: > You don't actually install Dropbox on a remote experimentation machine

good point, we don't expect this to be installed. And it makes sense that usually you don't want all the data from the remote on any machine.

> Dropbox uses smart sync.

that's what I was referring to. Do we need to specify via API somehow that the dir (in this case `Applications/dvc/something`) should not be synced, or will it do this automatically?

Reviewer 2: It looks like it's not possible to share it https://www.dropboxforum.com/t5/Dropbox-API-Support-Feedback/Sharing-of-folders-inside-the-Apps-folder/td-p/38534 . It makes "App folder" apps limited, right?

Also, another reason to make `Scoped App` vs `App folder` is it's ability to do external deps/outs/imports- (e.g. `dvc import-url dropbox://something` to get and track the dir, `dvc -d dropbox://something -o dropbox://model.pkl`, etc). It is considered advanced indeed, and is rarely used. But we need to test apps that are Scoped, and default dvc app probably should be Scoped.

Author: > that's what I was referring to. Do we need to specify via API somehow that the dir (in this case Applications/dvc/something) should not be synced, or will it do this automatically?

It's enabled by default in Drobpox, but a user can adjust that.

> It looks like it's not possible to share it https://www.dropboxforum.com/t5/Dropbox-API-Support-Feedback/Sharing-of-folders-inside-the-Apps-folder/td-p/38534 . It makes "App folder" apps limited, right?

You're right, great catch. Anyway, that would probably influence only the Dropbox App definition, not the integration code. One would rather need to specify a certain directory outside of the `Applications/dvc`. I'll test that.

> Also, another reason to make Scoped App vs App folder is it's ability to do external deps/outs/imports- (e.g. dvc import-url dropbox://something to get and track the dir, dvc -d dropbox://something -o dropbox://model.pkl, etc). It is considered advanced indeed, and is rarely used. But we need to test apps that are Scoped, and default dvc app probably should be Scoped.

Honestly, I didn't even know one could do `dvc -d dropbox://something -o dropbox://model.pkl`. What changes would be required to make it work?

Reviewer 2: > It's enabled by default in Drobpox, but a user can adjust that.

Sorry, I haven't tried it. So, does it mean that if I have an app installed and have a pro account it won't be syncing any new directories, or only those in the `Apllications`?

> You're right, great catch. Anyway, that would probably influence only the Dropbox App definition, not the integration code. One would rather need to specify a certain directory outside of the Applications/dvc. I'll test that.

thanks! 🙏 
it is also about the DVC app and the app type we recommend creating.

> Honestly, I didn't even know one could do dvc -d dropbox://something -o dropbox://model.pkl. What changes would be required to make it work?

not need to do anything about it in this PR (may be some stubs with NotImplemented exception, we'll see)- we can address it later . It's more about me trying to understand better what type DVC Dropbox app should have. But it looks like we agreed that it should be the Scoped one, not the `App folder`.

Author: > Sorry, I haven't tried it. So, does it mean that if I have an app installed and have a pro account it won't be syncing any new directories, or only those in the Apllications?

You don't actually need a Pro account, that's one of the recent free features if I recall properly. More [here](https://www.dropbox.com/smart-sync).

> it is also about the DVC app and the app type we recommend creating.

I've just re-created my `dvc-test` app as scoped app with access to the whole Dropbox account instead of the App Folder. Works like a charm, without the limitation to the specific directory - you can setup any directory you wish, including a shared one. The permissions used are exactly the same as for the App Directory setup.

[Here](https://www.dropbox.com/lp/developers/reference/oauth-guide#implicit-grant) in the section "Using User and Team Tokens" it is stated though that enabling the Team scope would require a different approach. I couldn't make the app working with any Team scope enabled, as my subscription doesn't cover that. Probably one would need to define two separate apps (one for personal and one for Team scope), but I can't check that simply.

Reviewer 2: > You don't actually need a Pro account

you are right, you don't. But you still need a paid plan. Mine is free and that's why I don't have smart sync. Not a problem at all- I would not expect DVC to be used a lot on free accounts.

> Works like a charm

perfect! That's how I initialize the `dvc` app already.

> Teams

I think it's good to take a look to at least understand the consequences and if we need to do something in advance. But overall it's fine to do support later. I'll read a bit more about apps and their differences. Primarily to do the right thing about the official DVC app.

I'll also enable the Teams subscription to test it, I'll invite you.

> `DROPBOX_HOME/Applications/dvc/my-project`. Make sure this name is not already

Reviewer 2: it can be used by another project technically, some people use the same remote for all projects

Author: True, it could be.

used for another project to keep things separated. The URL is formed as follows:
`dropbox://my-project`. It does not need to be an existing directory.

## Authorization

On the first usage of a Dropbox [remote](/doc/command-reference/remote), for
example when trying to `dvc push` tracked data for the first time, DVC will
prompt you to visit a special Dropbox authentication web page. There you'll need
to sign into a Drobpox account with the needed access to the Dropbox
[URL](#url-format) in question. The
[auth process](https://www.dropbox.com/lp/developers/reference/oauth-guide) will
ask you to grant DVC the necessary permissions, and produce a verification code
needed for DVC to complete the connection. On success, the necessary credentials
will be saved in a Git-ignored file, located in

> `.dvc/tmp/dropbox-user-credentials.json` and they will be used automatically

Reviewer 2: qq - do you know if they expire?

Author: The authorization token expires within 4 hrs. I didn't find anything about the expiration of refresh token though 😂

Reviewer 2: yep, it's fine then. Probably stays long. We'll see as we use it. Might check rclone code base though as well.

next time you run DVC.

⚠️ In order to prevent unauthorized access to your Dropbox, **do not share these
credentials with others**. Each team member should go through this process
individually.

> If you use multiple Dropbox remotes, by default they will be sharing the same

Reviewer 2: yep, it's better for us to support `dropbox_credentials_file` as well. I'll make part of the main PR review.
